README.md, before:

# RallyRack

```text
██████╗  █████╗ ██╗     ██╗  ██╗   ██╗██████╗  █████╗  ██████╗██╗  ██╗
██╔══██╗██╔══██╗██║     ██║  ╚██╗ ██╔╝██╔══██╗██╔══██╗██╔════╝██║ ██╔╝
██████╔╝███████║██║     ██║   ╚████╔╝ ██████╔╝███████║██║     █████╔╝
██╔══██╗██╔══██║██║     ██║    ╚██╔╝  ██╔══██╗██╔══██║██║     ██╔═██╗
██║  ██║██║  ██║███████╗███████╗██║   ██║  ██║██║  ██║╚██████╗██║  ██╗
╚═╝  ╚═╝╚═╝  ╚═╝╚══════╝╚══════╝╚═╝   ╚═╝  ╚═╝╚═╝  ╚═╝ ╚═════╝╚═╝  ╚═╝
```

Wireless court availability system using ESP32 + ESP-NOW.

## Shopping List (Adafruit)

Full 8-court setup, all from [adafruit.com](https://www.adafruit.com).

### Core Electronics

| Item | Adafruit PID | Qty | Unit | Subtotal |
|---|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Arcade Button with LED - 30mm Translucent Green | [3487](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3487) | 8 | $2.50 | $20.00 |
| Arcade Button Quick-Connect Wires 0.187" (10-pack) | [3835](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3835) | 1 | $4.95 | $4.95 |
| Adafruit QT Py S3 w/ 2MB PSRAM (receiver) | [5700](https://www.adafruit.com/product/5700) | 1 | $12.50 | $12.50 |
| ESP32-C3 DevKitM-01 (transmitters) | [5337](https://www.adafruit.com/product/5337) | 8 | $9.95 | $79.60 |
| Monochrome 1.3" 128x64 OLED - STEMMA QT | [938](https://www.adafruit.com/product/938) | 1 | $19.95 | $19.95 |
| Tactile Button switch 6mm (20-pack, for resets) | [367](https://www.adafruit.com/product/367) | 1 | $2.50 | $2.50 |
| Piezo Buzzer PS1240 | [160](https://www.adafruit.com/product/160) | 1 | $1.50 | $1.50 |
| 5V 2A switching power supply - UL Listed | [276](https://www.adafruit.com/product/276) | 1 | $7.95 | $7.95 |
| 470Ω resistors 1/4W (25-pack) | [2781](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2781) | 1 | $0.75 | $0.75 |
| Premium M/M Jumper Wires 20×6" | [1957](https://www.adafruit.com/product/1957) | 2 | $1.95 | $3.90 |
| **Core subtotal** | | | | **$153.60** |

### Power + Portable Button Parts

| Item | Adafruit PID | Qty | Unit | Subtotal |
|---|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Lithium Ion Polymer Battery 3.7V 350mAh | [2750](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2750) | 8 | $6.95 | $55.60 |
| Adafruit Micro-Lipo Charger (MicroUSB) | [1904](https://www.adafruit.com/product/1904) | 8 | $6.95 | $55.60 |
| **Portable subtotal** | | | | **$111.20** |

### Prototyping

| Item | Adafruit PID | Qty | Unit | Subtotal |
|---|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Full Sized Breadboard 830 Tie Points | [239](https://www.adafruit.com/product/239) | 2 | $5.95 | $11.90 |
| **Prototyping subtotal** | | | | **$11.90** |

### Budget Summary

- **All electronics (core + portable + prototyping):** about **$277**
- You will also need basic tools (soldering iron, solder, wire stripper, multimeter, heat-shrink) which Adafruit does not carry — source from a hardware store or Mouser/DigiKey

## Hardware

### Per Court Button (×8)
- ESP32-C3 DevKitM-01 ([Adafruit 5337](https://www.adafruit.com/product/5337))
- [Adafruit 30mm Translucent LED Arcade Button](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3487) (Green or any color)
  - Built-in dual LEDs with 200Ω resistor
  - Works at 3.3V (2mA, dimmer) or 5V (10mA, brighter)
  - Includes switch (NO) and LED contacts
- LiPo battery ([Adafruit 2750](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2750)) + Micro-Lipo charger ([Adafruit 1904](https://www.adafruit.com/product/1904))
- [0.187" Quick-Connect Wire Pairs](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3835) for easy assembly

### Rack Controller (×1)
- Adafruit QT Py S3 w/ 2MB PSRAM ([Adafruit 5700](https://www.adafruit.com/product/5700))
- 8× momentary push buttons (reset)
- Passive buzzer ([Adafruit 160](https://www.adafruit.com/product/160))
- 1.3" I2C OLED display (SSD1306, 128x64) ([Adafruit 938](https://www.adafruit.com/product/938))
- 5V power supply ([Adafruit 276](https://www.adafruit.com/product/276))

## Wiring

### Transmitter (each Court button)
- **Button switch contacts:** one to BUTTON_PIN (GPIO 3), other to GND
- **Button LED contacts:** positive (+) to LED_PIN (GPIO 10), negative (-) to GND
  - **No external resistor needed** - 200Ω resistor built into button
  - Works directly from ESP32 GPIO pin (3.3V)
  - LED will be slightly dimmer at 3.3V vs 5V, but adequate for visibility

```text
Transmitter (ESP32-C3 + Arcade Button)

                  ESP32-C3 DevKitM-01
               +---------------------+
GPIO 3 ---| BUTTON_PIN          |
GPIO10 ---| LED_PIN             |
GND ------| GND                 |
               +---------------------+
                   |        |      |
                   |        |      +------------------------------+
                   |        +-------------+                       |
                   |                      |                       |
                   v                      v                       v
         Arcade Button Switch      Arcade LED (+)         Arcade LED (-)
            [ NO contact ]            [ anode ]             [ cathode ]
                   |                      |                       |
                   +----------------------+-----------------------+
                                                      |
                                                    GND
```

| ESP32-C3 Pin | Connects To | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| GPIO 3  | Arcade switch terminal 1 | `BUTTON_PIN` |
| GND     | Arcade switch terminal 2 | Active-low with pullup |
| GPIO 10 | Arcade LED (+) | `LED_PIN` |
| GND     | Arcade LED (-) | Built-in 200Ω resistor in button |

### Receiver (rack)
- Reset buttons → D0..D7 to GND (internal pullups used)
- Buzzer → D10
- OLED (SSD1306 I2C) → SDA/SCL + power

```text
Receiver Rack (QT Py S3 + Reset Buttons + Buzzer + OLED)

                                 +----------------------+
                                 |   QT Py ESP32-S3     |
                                 |                      |
D10 ------------------| BUZZER_PIN           |
D0  ------------------| RESET Court 1        |
D1  ------------------| RESET Court 2        |
D2  ------------------| RESET Court 3        |
D3  ------------------| RESET Court 4        |
D4  ------------------| RESET Court 5        |
D5  ------------------| RESET Court 6        |
D6  ------------------| RESET Court 7        |
D7  ------------------| RESET Court 8        |
GND ------------------| GND                  |
                                 +----------------------+

Reset buttons (one per court):
   D0..D7 --------[button]---- GND
   (uses internal pull-up, so press = LOW)

Buzzer:
   D10 -----------------------> Buzzer signal (+)
   GND -----------------------> Buzzer (-)

OLED (SSD1306 I2C):
   QT Py 3V3 -----------------> OLED VCC
   QT Py GND -----------------> OLED GND
   QT Py SDA -----------------> OLED SDA
   QT Py SCL -----------------> OLED SCL
```

| QT Py S3 Pin | Connects To | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| D10 | Buzzer signal (+) | `BUZZER_PIN` |
| D0  | Reset button Court 1 | To GND when pressed |
| D1  | Reset button Court 2 | To GND when pressed |
| D2  | Reset button Court 3 | To GND when pressed |
| D3  | Reset button Court 4 | To GND when pressed |
| D4  | Reset button Court 5 | To GND when pressed |
| D5  | Reset button Court 6 | To GND when pressed |
| D6  | Reset button Court 7 | To GND when pressed |
| D7  | Reset button Court 8 | To GND when pressed |
| SDA | OLED SDA | I2C data line |
| SCL | OLED SCL | I2C clock line |
| GND | Button return + buzzer (-) | Common ground required |

## Getting Started

### 1) Install tools

1. Install **PlatformIO** (either option below):
   - **VS Code extension:** install `PlatformIO IDE`
   - **CLI:** install `platformio` (`pio`) and verify with `pio --version`
2. Clone this repo and open it as a PlatformIO project root (folder containing `platformio.ini`)
3. PlatformIO will automatically install board packages and libraries on first build/upload

### 1.1) Project targets (PlatformIO environments)

- `receiver` → QT Py S3 rack controller firmware
- `transmitter` → ESP32-C3 court button firmware
- `get_mac_address` → utility to print receiver MAC

Code locations:
- `src/receiver/main.cpp`
- `src/transmitter/main.cpp`
- `src/get_mac_address/main.cpp`
- `include/rallyrack_config.h`
- `receiver/config.h`
- `transmitter/config.h`

### 2) Wire hardware

1. Assemble one receiver rack and up to 8 court transmitters using the wiring tables above
2. Double-check power:
   - ESP32 boards can stay on USB during development

### 2.1) Breadboard prototyping (no-solder first pass)

Use this to validate code and radio links before permanent wiring.

1. Start with **one transmitter** + **one receiver** only
2. Use a breadboard and Dupont jumper wires
3. Prototype transmitter wiring:
   - ESP32-C3 `GPIO3` → momentary button leg A
   - ESP32-C3 `GND` → button leg B
   - ESP32-C3 `GPIO10` → LED anode (+)
   - ESP32-C3 `GND` → LED cathode (-)
4. Prototype receiver wiring:
   - QT Py S3 `D0` → reset button leg A, leg B → `GND`
   - QT Py S3 `D10` → buzzer `+`, buzzer `-` → `GND`
   - OLED: `3V3`→`VCC`, `GND`→`GND`, `SDA`→`SDA`, `SCL`→`SCL`
5. Keep ESP32 boards on USB power while prototyping
6. Flash and test with `COURT_ID=1` first, then scale to additional courts

Prototype tips:
- Breadboard rail labels can be inconsistent; verify continuity with a multimeter
- Make sure all grounds are tied together

### 3) Configure receiver and transmitters

1. Build/upload the MAC utility to the receiver QT Py S3:
   - `pio run -e get_mac_address -t upload`
2. Open Serial Monitor at 115200 baud — the MAC prints on startup (e.g. `AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF`)
   - `pio device monitor -b 115200`
3. In `transmitter/config.h`, paste it in as:
   - `uint8_t RECEIVER_MAC[] = {0xAA, 0xBB, 0xCC, 0xDD, 0xEE, 0xFF};`
4. For each transmitter unit, set a unique `COURT_ID` (1 to 8)
5. In `receiver/config.h`, confirm receiver-specific pin assignments
6. In `include/rallyrack_config.h`, confirm shared settings like `NUM_COURTS`

### 4) Flash firmware

1. **Receiver:**
   - Env: `receiver`
   - Command: `pio run -e receiver -t upload`
2. **Transmitters (each unit):**
   - Env: `transmitter`
   - Command: `pio run -e transmitter -t upload`
3. If needed, set an explicit serial port:
   - `pio run -e receiver -t upload --upload-port /dev/cu.usbmodemXXXX`
   - `pio run -e transmitter -t upload --upload-port /dev/cu.usbmodemXXXX`
4. If upload fails, hold **BOOT** while connecting/uploading

### 4.1) USB + programming notes (QT Py S3 / ESP32-C3)

1. QT Py S3 and ESP32-C3 DevKitM-01 both include onboard USB-C
2. Use a **data-capable USB cable** (charge-only cables will power the board but uploads fail)
3. In PlatformIO:
   - Choose env (`receiver`, `transmitter`, or `get_mac_address`)
   - Use `--upload-port` when multiple serial devices are connected
4. If upload stalls at connecting:
   - Hold **BOOT**
   - Run upload command
   - Release **BOOT** when "Connecting..." appears in console
   - Tap **RESET** once if needed
5. Different dev boards may expose either native USB CDC or USB-to-UART, but both should appear as serial devices for PlatformIO

### 5) Verify operation

1. Press a court button transmitter
2. Confirm buzzer chirps and OLED shows that court as available
3. Press that court's reset button on the rack and confirm OLED updates

### 6) Wait-time display + serial debug (MVP)

The receiver tracks per-court wait times and updates a running average when each court is reset.

- OLED header shows overall average wait time (minutes)
- OLED auto-pages every few seconds:
   - Page 1: Courts 1-4
   - Page 2: Courts 5-8
- Per-court OLED format:
   - `N` = live wait now (while court is available)
   - `A` = running average wait for that court

Open Serial Monitor at `115200` to view debug events:

- Court becomes available: `[AVAILABLE] Court 3 now open`
- Duplicate available while already open: `[AVAILABLE] Court 3 already open (now=2m)`
- Court reset with sample update: `[RESET] Court 3 wait=7m avg=5m n=12`
- Reset with no active wait: `[RESET] Court 3 pressed with no active wait`

## How It Works

1. Players finish → press court button
2. Button wakes from deep sleep → sends court ID via ESP-NOW → flashes LED → sleeps
3. Rack buzzer chirps + OLED shows court as available + starts wait timer
4. OLED shows live per-court wait (`N`) and running average (`A`)
5. Next group grabs paddles → presses reset button on rack → OLED updates and average recalculates

## Testing & Development

### Unit Tests (No Hardware)

RallyRack includes 21 unit tests that validate all receiver logic without any hardware:

```bash
# Run all tests
pio test -e test

# Verbose output
pio test -e test -vv
```

Tests cover:
- Time calculations and rounding
- Court state machine (idle → available → in-use → returned)
- Wait-time averaging across multiple cycles
- Display formatting and rendering
- Debouncing logic
- Multi-court independence
- Edge cases and boundary conditions

Tests run instantly (~400ms) and catch regressions before flashing hardware.

### Building Without Hardware

```bash
# Build all environments (no upload without hardware)
pio run

# Build specific environments
pio run -e receiver
pio run -e transmitter
pio run -e get_mac_address
```

### Display Output Format

When testing, courts display in one of these states:

- `C1 N: -- A: 2m` — Court **idle**, average wait is 2 minutes
- `C1 N: 5m A: 2m` — Court **available** for 5 minutes now, historically 2-minute average
- `C1 U: 4m A: 2m` — Court **in use** for 4 minutes, historical average 2 minutes

## Setup & Deployment

See [SETUP.md](SETUP.md) for:
- MAC address discovery and configuration
- Per-unit customization (court IDs)
- Flashing all devices
- Troubleshooting

Commit message:

Add OLED preview tool and update test fixtures for display logic

README.md, after:

# RallyRack

```text
██████╗  █████╗ ██╗     ██╗  ██╗   ██╗██████╗  █████╗  ██████╗██╗  ██╗
██╔══██╗██╔══██╗██║     ██║  ╚██╗ ██╔╝██╔══██╗██╔══██╗██╔════╝██║ ██╔╝
██████╔╝███████║██║     ██║   ╚████╔╝ ██████╔╝███████║██║     █████╔╝
██╔══██╗██╔══██║██║     ██║    ╚██╔╝  ██╔══██╗██╔══██║██║     ██╔═██╗
██║  ██║██║  ██║███████╗███████╗██║   ██║  ██║██║  ██║╚██████╗██║  ██╗
╚═╝  ╚═╝╚═╝  ╚═╝╚══════╝╚══════╝╚═╝   ╚═╝  ╚═╝╚═╝  ╚═╝ ╚═════╝╚═╝  ╚═╝
```

Wireless court availability system using ESP32 + ESP-NOW.

## Shopping List (Adafruit)

Full 8-court setup, all from [adafruit.com](https://www.adafruit.com).

### Core Electronics

| Item | Adafruit PID | Qty | Unit | Subtotal |
|---|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Arcade Button with LED - 30mm Translucent Green | [3487](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3487) | 8 | $2.50 | $20.00 |
| Arcade Button Quick-Connect Wires 0.187" (10-pack) | [3835](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3835) | 1 | $4.95 | $4.95 |
| Adafruit QT Py S3 w/ 2MB PSRAM (receiver) | [5700](https://www.adafruit.com/product/5700) | 1 | $12.50 | $12.50 |
| ESP32-C3 DevKitM-01 (transmitters) | [5337](https://www.adafruit.com/product/5337) | 8 | $9.95 | $79.60 |
| Monochrome 1.3" 128x64 OLED - STEMMA QT | [938](https://www.adafruit.com/product/938) | 1 | $19.95 | $19.95 |
| Tactile Button switch 6mm (20-pack, for resets) | [367](https://www.adafruit.com/product/367) | 1 | $2.50 | $2.50 |
| Piezo Buzzer PS1240 | [160](https://www.adafruit.com/product/160) | 1 | $1.50 | $1.50 |
| 5V 2A switching power supply - UL Listed | [276](https://www.adafruit.com/product/276) | 1 | $7.95 | $7.95 |
| 470Ω resistors 1/4W (25-pack) | [2781](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2781) | 1 | $0.75 | $0.75 |
| Premium M/M Jumper Wires 20×6" | [1957](https://www.adafruit.com/product/1957) | 2 | $1.95 | $3.90 |
| **Core subtotal** | | | | **$153.60** |

### Power + Portable Button Parts

| Item | Adafruit PID | Qty | Unit | Subtotal |
|---|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Lithium Ion Polymer Battery 3.7V 350mAh | [2750](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2750) | 8 | $6.95 | $55.60 |
| Adafruit Micro-Lipo Charger (MicroUSB) | [1904](https://www.adafruit.com/product/1904) | 8 | $6.95 | $55.60 |
| **Portable subtotal** | | | | **$111.20** |

### Prototyping

| Item | Adafruit PID | Qty | Unit | Subtotal |
|---|---|---:|---:|---:|
| Full Sized Breadboard 830 Tie Points | [239](https://www.adafruit.com/product/239) | 2 | $5.95 | $11.90 |
| **Prototyping subtotal** | | | | **$11.90** |

### Budget Summary

- **All electronics (core + portable + prototyping):** about **$277**
- You will also need basic tools (soldering iron, solder, wire stripper, multimeter, heat-shrink) which Adafruit does not carry — source from a hardware store or Mouser/DigiKey

## Hardware

### Per Court Button (×8)
- ESP32-C3 DevKitM-01 ([Adafruit 5337](https://www.adafruit.com/product/5337))
- [Adafruit 30mm Translucent LED Arcade Button](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3487) (Green or any color)
  - Built-in dual LEDs with 200Ω resistor
  - Works at 3.3V (2mA, dimmer) or 5V (10mA, brighter)
  - Includes switch (NO) and LED contacts
- LiPo battery ([Adafruit 2750](https://www.adafruit.com/product/2750)) + Micro-Lipo charger ([Adafruit 1904](https://www.adafruit.com/product/1904))
- [0.187" Quick-Connect Wire Pairs](https://www.adafruit.com/product/3835) for easy assembly

### Rack Controller (×1)
- Adafruit QT Py S3 w/ 2MB PSRAM ([Adafruit 5700](https://www.adafruit.com/product/5700))
- 8× momentary push buttons (reset)
- Passive buzzer ([Adafruit 160](https://www.adafruit.com/product/160))
- 1.3" I2C OLED display (SSD1306, 128x64) ([Adafruit 938](https://www.adafruit.com/product/938))
- 5V power supply ([Adafruit 276](https://www.adafruit.com/product/276))

## Wiring

### Transmitter (each Court button)
- **Button switch contacts:** one to BUTTON_PIN (GPIO 3), other to GND
- **Button LED contacts:** positive (+) to LED_PIN (GPIO 10), negative (-) to GND
  - **No external resistor needed** - 200Ω resistor built into button
  - Works directly from ESP32 GPIO pin (3.3V)
  - LED will be slightly dimmer at 3.3V vs 5V, but adequate for visibility

```text
Transmitter (ESP32-C3 + Arcade Button)

                  ESP32-C3 DevKitM-01
               +---------------------+
GPIO 3 ---| BUTTON_PIN          |
GPIO10 ---| LED_PIN             |
GND ------| GND                 |
               +---------------------+
                   |        |      |
                   |        |      +------------------------------+
                   |        +-------------+                       |
                   |                      |                       |
                   v                      v                       v
         Arcade Button Switch      Arcade LED (+)         Arcade LED (-)
            [ NO contact ]            [ anode ]             [ cathode ]
                   |                      |                       |
                   +----------------------+-----------------------+
                                                      |
                                                    GND
```

| ESP32-C3 Pin | Connects To | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| GPIO 3  | Arcade switch terminal 1 | `BUTTON_PIN` |
| GND     | Arcade switch terminal 2 | Active-low with pullup |
| GPIO 10 | Arcade LED (+) | `LED_PIN` |
| GND     | Arcade LED (-) | Built-in 200Ω resistor in button |

### Receiver (rack)
- Reset buttons → D0..D7 to GND (internal pullups used)
- Buzzer → D10
- OLED (SSD1306 I2C) → SDA/SCL + power

```text
Receiver Rack (QT Py S3 + Reset Buttons + Buzzer + OLED)

                                 +----------------------+
                                 |   QT Py ESP32-S3     |
                                 |                      |
D10 ------------------| BUZZER_PIN           |
D0  ------------------| RESET Court 1        |
D1  ------------------| RESET Court 2        |
D2  ------------------| RESET Court 3        |
D3  ------------------| RESET Court 4        |
D4  ------------------| RESET Court 5        |
D5  ------------------| RESET Court 6        |
D6  ------------------| RESET Court 7        |
D7  ------------------| RESET Court 8        |
GND ------------------| GND                  |
                                 +----------------------+

Reset buttons (one per court):
   D0..D7 --------[button]---- GND
   (uses internal pull-up, so press = LOW)

Buzzer:
   D10 -----------------------> Buzzer signal (+)
   GND -----------------------> Buzzer (-)

OLED (SSD1306 I2C):
   QT Py 3V3 -----------------> OLED VCC
   QT Py GND -----------------> OLED GND
   QT Py SDA -----------------> OLED SDA
   QT Py SCL -----------------> OLED SCL
```

| QT Py S3 Pin | Connects To | Notes |
|---|---|---|
| D10 | Buzzer signal (+) | `BUZZER_PIN` |
| D0  | Reset button Court 1 | To GND when pressed |
| D1  | Reset button Court 2 | To GND when pressed |
| D2  | Reset button Court 3 | To GND when pressed |
| D3  | Reset button Court 4 | To GND when pressed |
| D4  | Reset button Court 5 | To GND when pressed |
| D5  | Reset button Court 6 | To GND when pressed |
| D6  | Reset button Court 7 | To GND when pressed |
| D7  | Reset button Court 8 | To GND when pressed |
| SDA | OLED SDA | I2C data line |
| SCL | OLED SCL | I2C clock line |
| GND | Button return + buzzer (-) | Common ground required |

## Getting Started

### 1) Install tools

1. Install **PlatformIO** (either option below):
   - **VS Code extension:** install `PlatformIO IDE`
   - **CLI:** install `platformio` (`pio`) and verify with `pio --version`
2. Clone this repo and open it as a PlatformIO project root (folder containing `platformio.ini`)
3. PlatformIO will automatically install board packages and libraries on first build/upload

### 1.1) Project targets (PlatformIO environments)

- `receiver` → QT Py S3 rack controller firmware
- `transmitter` → ESP32-C3 court button firmware
- `get_mac_address` → utility to print receiver MAC

Code locations:
- `src/receiver/main.cpp`
- `src/transmitter/main.cpp`
- `src/get_mac_address/main.cpp`
- `include/rallyrack_config.h`
- `receiver/config.h`
- `transmitter/config.h`

### 2) Wire hardware

1. Assemble one receiver rack and up to 8 court transmitters using the wiring tables above
2. Double-check power:
   - ESP32 boards can stay on USB during development

### 2.1) Breadboard prototyping (no-solder first pass)

Use this to validate code and radio links before permanent wiring.

1. Start with **one transmitter** + **one receiver** only
2. Use a breadboard and Dupont jumper wires
3. Prototype transmitter wiring:
   - ESP32-C3 `GPIO3` → momentary button leg A
   - ESP32-C3 `GND` → button leg B
   - ESP32-C3 `GPIO10` → LED anode (+)
   - ESP32-C3 `GND` → LED cathode (-)
4. Prototype receiver wiring:
   - QT Py S3 `D0` → reset button leg A, leg B → `GND`
   - QT Py S3 `D10` → buzzer `+`, buzzer `-` → `GND`
   - OLED: `3V3`→`VCC`, `GND`→`GND`, `SDA`→`SDA`, `SCL`→`SCL`
5. Keep ESP32 boards on USB power while prototyping
6. Flash and test with `COURT_ID=1` first, then scale to additional courts

Prototype tips:
- Breadboard rail labels can be inconsistent; verify continuity with a multimeter
- Make sure all grounds are tied together

### 3) Configure receiver and transmitters

1. Build/upload the MAC utility to the receiver QT Py S3:
   - `pio run -e get_mac_address -t upload`
2. Open Serial Monitor at 115200 baud — the MAC prints on startup (e.g. `AA:BB:CC:DD:EE:FF`)
   - `pio device monitor -b 115200`
3. In `transmitter/config.h`, paste it in as:
   - `uint8_t RECEIVER_MAC[] = {0xAA, 0xBB, 0xCC, 0xDD, 0xEE, 0xFF};`
4. For each transmitter unit, set a unique `COURT_ID` (1 to 8)
5. In `receiver/config.h`, confirm receiver-specific pin assignments
6. In `include/rallyrack_config.h`, confirm shared settings like `NUM_COURTS`

### 4) Flash firmware

1. **Receiver:**
   - Env: `receiver`
   - Command: `pio run -e receiver -t upload`
2. **Transmitters (each unit):**
   - Env: `transmitter`
   - Command: `pio run -e transmitter -t upload`
3. If needed, set an explicit serial port:
   - `pio run -e receiver -t upload --upload-port /dev/cu.usbmodemXXXX`
   - `pio run -e transmitter -t upload --upload-port /dev/cu.usbmodemXXXX`
4. If upload fails, hold **BOOT** while connecting/uploading

### 4.1) USB + programming notes (QT Py S3 / ESP32-C3)

1. QT Py S3 and ESP32-C3 DevKitM-01 both include onboard USB-C
2. Use a **data-capable USB cable** (charge-only cables will power the board but uploads fail)
3. In PlatformIO:
   - Choose env (`receiver`, `transmitter`, or `get_mac_address`)
   - Use `--upload-port` when multiple serial devices are connected
4. If upload stalls at connecting:
   - Hold **BOOT**
   - Run upload command
   - Release **BOOT** when "Connecting..." appears in console
   - Tap **RESET** once if needed
5. Different dev boards may expose either native USB CDC or USB-to-UART, but both should appear as serial devices for PlatformIO

### 5) Verify operation

1. Press a court button transmitter
2. Confirm buzzer chirps and OLED shows that court as available
3. Press that court's reset button on the rack and confirm OLED updates

### 6) Wait-time display + serial debug (MVP)

The receiver tracks per-court wait times and updates a running average when each court is reset.

- OLED header shows overall average wait time (minutes)
- OLED auto-pages every few seconds:
   - Page 1: Courts 1-4
   - Page 2: Courts 5-8
- Per-court OLED format:
   - `N` = live wait now (while court is available)
   - `A` = running average wait for that court

Open Serial Monitor at `115200` to view debug events:

- Court becomes available: `[AVAILABLE] Court 3 now open`
- Duplicate available while already open: `[AVAILABLE] Court 3 already open (now=2m)`
- Court reset with sample update: `[RESET] Court 3 wait=7m avg=5m n=12`
- Reset with no active wait: `[RESET] Court 3 pressed with no active wait`

## How It Works

1. Players finish → press court button
2. Button wakes from deep sleep → sends court ID via ESP-NOW → flashes LED → sleeps
3. Rack buzzer chirps + OLED shows court as available + starts wait timer
4. OLED shows live per-court wait (`N`) and running average (`A`)
5. Next group grabs paddles → presses reset button on rack → OLED updates and average recalculates

## Testing & Development

### Unit Tests (No Hardware)

RallyRack includes 21 unit tests that validate all receiver logic without any hardware:

```bash
# Run all tests
pio test -e test

# Verbose output
pio test -e test -vv
```

Tests cover:
- Time calculations and rounding
- Court state machine (idle → available → in-use → returned)
- Wait-time averaging across multiple cycles
- Display formatting and rendering
- Debouncing logic
- Multi-court independence
- Edge cases and boundary conditions

Tests run instantly (~400ms) and catch regressions before flashing hardware.

### OLED Preview (No Hardware)

You can render a text preview of the OLED screen on your computer using the same fixture state as the unit tests:

```bash
# Render both pages
pio run -e oled_preview -t run

# Render a single page
pio run -e oled_preview -t run -D run_args="--page 1"
```

Example output:

```text
RallyRack Wait Avg
Overall: 3m  P1/2
C1 U: 4m A: 2m
C2 N: 1m A: 3m
C3 N: -- A: 2m
C4 N: 5m A: 4m
```

### Building Without Hardware

```bash
# Build all environments (no upload without hardware)
pio run

# Build specific environments
pio run -e receiver
pio run -e transmitter
pio run -e get_mac_address
```

### Display Output Format

When testing, courts display in one of these states:

- `C1 N: -- A: 2m` — Court **idle**, average wait is 2 minutes
- `C1 N: 5m A: 2m` — Court **available** for 5 minutes now, historically 2-minute average
- `C1 U: 4m A: 2m` — Court **in use** for 4 minutes, historical average 2 minutes

## Setup & Deployment

See [SETUP.md](SETUP.md) for:
- MAC address discovery and configuration
- Per-unit customization (court IDs)
- Flashing all devices
- Troubleshooting
